so many of you
when I was a kid I hid my heart under
the bed because my mother said if you're
not careful someday someone's gonna
break it take it from me under the bed
is not a good hiding spot I know because
I've been shot down so many times I get
altitude sickness just from standing up
for myself but that's what we were told
stand up for yourself that's hard to do
if you don't know who you are we were
expected to define ourselves at such an
early age and if we didn't do it others
did it for us
geek fatty bag and at the same time
we were being told what we were we were
being asked what do you want to be when
you grow up I always thought that was an
unfair question to presupposes that we
can't be what we were already are we
were kids when I was a kid I wanted to
be a man
I wanted a registered retirement savings
plan that would keep me in candy long
enough to make old age sweet when I was
a kid I wanted to shave now not so much
when I was eight I wanted to be a marine
biologist when I was nine I saw the
movie Jaws and thought to myself no
thank you when I was ten I was told that
my parents left because they didn't want
me when I was 11 I want to be left alone
when I was 12 I wanted to die when I was
13 I wanted to kill a kid when I was 14
I was asked to seriously consider a
career path I said I'd like to be a
writer and they said choose something
realistic so I said professional
wrestler and they said don't be stupid
see they asked me what I wanted to be
then told me what not to be and I wasn't
the only one we were being told that we
somehow must become what we are not
sacrificing what we are to inherit the
masquerade of what we will be I was
being told to accept the identity that
others will give me and I wonder what
made my dreams so easy to dismiss
granted my dreams are shy
because they're Canadian my dreams are
self-conscious and overly apologetic the
standing alone at the high school dance
they've never been kissed see my dreams
got called names - silly foolish
impossible but I kept dreaming I was
gonna be a wrestler I had it all figured
out I was going to be the garbage man my
finishing move was gonna be the trash
compactor my saying was gonna be I'm
taking out the trash and then this guy
duke the dumpster' droese
stole my entire stick I was crushed as
if by a trash compactor
I thought to myself what now where do I
turn poetry like a boomerang the thing I
loved came back to me one of the first
lines of poetry I can remember writing
was response to a world that demanded I
hate myself from age 15 to 18 I hated
myself for becoming the thing that I
loathed a bully when I was 19 I wrote I
will love myself despite the ease with
which I leaned toward the opposite
standing up for yourself doesn't have to
mean embracing violence when I was a kid
I traded in homework assignments for
friendship then gave each friend a late
slip for never showing up on time and in
most cases not at all I gave this up a
Hall Pass to get to reach broken promise
and I remember this plan born out of
frustration from a kid who kept calling
me yogi then pointed to my tummy and
said too many picnic baskets turns out
it's not that hard to trick someone and
one day before class I said yeah you can
copy my homework and I gave him all the
wrong answers that had written down the
night before he got his paper back
expecting a near-perfect score and
couldn't believe him they looked across
the room me and held up a zero I never
didn't have to hold up my paper of 28
out of 30 but my satisfaction was
complete when he looked at me puzzled
and I thought to myself smarter than the
average bear
this is who I am this is how I stand up
for myself
when I was a kid I used to think that
pork chops and karate chops were the
same thing I thought there were both
pork chops because my grandmother
thought it was cute and because there
were my favorite she let me keep doing
it not really a big deal one day before
I realized fat kids are not designed to
climb trees I fell out of a tree and
bruised the right side of my body I
didn't want to tell my grandmother about
it because I was scared I'd get in
trouble for playing somewhere I
shouldn't have been a few days later the
gym teacher noticed the bruise and I got
sent to the principal's office from
there I was sent to another small room
with a really nice lady who asked me all
kinds of questions about my life at home
I saw no reason to lie as far as I was
concerned life was pretty good I told
her whenever I'm sad my grandmother
gives me karate chops
this led to a full-scale investigation
and I was removed from the house for
three days so they finally decided to
ask how I got the bruises news of the
silly little story quickly spread
through the school and I earned my first
nickname porkchop to this day I hate
pork chops I'm not the only kid who grew
up this way surrounded by people used to
say that rhyme about sticks and stones
as if broken bones hurt more than the
names we got called we got called them
all so we grew up believing no one would
ever fall in love with us I would be
lonely forever that we'd never meet
someone to make us feel like the Sun was
something they built for us in their
tool shed so broken heart strings bled
the blues we tried to empty ourselves so
he'd feel nothing don't tell me that
hurts less than a broken bone that
ingrown life is something surgeons can
cut away that there's no way for it to
metastasize it does she was 8 years old
our first day of grade 3 when she got
called ugly
we both got moved to the back of class
or we would stop getting bombarded by
spit balls but the school halls were
battleground we found ourselves up
numbered day after wretched day we used
to stand side for recess because outside
was worse outside we'd have to rehearse
running away or learn to stay still like
statues give me no clues that we were
there in grade 5 the tape to sign to the
front of her desk that read beware of
dog to this day despite a loving husband
she doesn't think she's beautiful
because of a birthmark that takes up a
little less than half her face kids used
to say she looks like a wrong answer
that someone tried to erase but couldn't
quite get the job done and they'll never
understand that she's raising two kids
whose definition of beauty begins with
the word mom because they see your heart
before theirs gee your skin because
you'll never always been amazing he was
a broken branch grafted onto a different
family tree adopted
not because his parents opted for a
different destiny he was three when we
came a mixed drink of one part left
alone in two parts tragedy started
therapy in eighth grade had a
personality made up of tests and pills
lived like the uphills were Mountains
and the downhills were cliffs
four-fifths suicidal a tidal wave of
antidepressants and an adolescent of
being called popper one part because of
the pills ninety nine parts because of
the cruelty he tried to kill himself in
grade ten when a kid who could still go
home to mom and dad had the audacity to
tell him get over it as if depression is
something that could be remedied by any
of the contents found in a first-aid kit
to this day he is a stick of TNT lit
from both ends could describe to in
detail the way the sky bends in a moment
before it's about to fall and despite an
army of friends will call him an
inspiration he remains a conversation
piece between people who can understand
sometimes being drug free has less to do
with addiction and more to do with
sanity we weren't the only kids who grew
up this way to this day kids are still
being called names the classics were a
stupid hey spaz seems like every school
has an arsenal of names getting updated
every year and if a kid breaks into
school and no one around chooses to hear
- they make a sound
they're just background noise from a
soundtrack stuck on repeat when people
say things like kids can be cruel every
school was a big top circus tent and the
pecking order went from acrobats to lion
tamers from clowns to carnies all of
these miles ahead of who we were we were
freaks lobster claw boys and bearded
ladies oddities juggling depression and
loneliness playing solitaire spin the
bottle trying to kiss the wounded parts
of ourselves and heal but at night while
the other slept we kept walking the
tightrope it was practiced yes some of
us felt but I want to tell them that all
of this
is just debris leftover when we finally
decide to smash all the things we
thought we used to be and if you can't
see anything beautiful about yourself
get a better mirror look a little closer
stare a little longer because there's
something inside you that made you keep
trying to spite everyone who told you to
quit you built a caste around your
broken heart and signed it yourself you
signed it they were wrong because maybe
you didn't belong to a group or a clique
maybe they decided to pick you last for
basketball or everything may be used to
bring bruises and broken teeth to show
and tell but never told because how can
you hold your ground if everyone around
you wants to bury you beneath it you
have to believe that they were wrong
they have to be wrong why else would we
still be here we grew up learning to
cheer on the underdog because we see
ourselves in them we stem from a root
planted in the belief that we are not
what we were called we are not abandoned
car stalled out and sitting empty on
some highway and if in some way we are
don't worry we only got out to walk and
get gas we are graduating members from
the class of we made it
now the faded echoes of voices trying
out names will never hurt me of course
they did but our lives will only ever
always continue to be a balancing act
that has less to do with pain and more
to do with beauty